[Music]
the Titan of the sea the great
unsinkable ship that sank over a century
later the mystery of the Titanic is
still being studied to this day only a
third of the ships passenger survived
while over 1500 lost their lives but out
of all those casualties only 340 bodies
were recovered so the question remains
what happened to the remaining 1160 I'll
get there shortly
but first a quick recap when the RMS
Titanic went down after crashing into an
iceberg on April 14th 1912 hundreds of
people perished in the freezing waters
of the northern Atlantic Ocean one of
the main reasons all these people were
left to wait for rescue in 28 degree
water which would all too quickly claim
lives before that rescue came was that
the Titanic didn't have enough lifeboats
for all its passengers there were only
20 and they needed 60 to be able to
carry everybody on board to safety as
for why there was such a drastic
shortage of lifeboats that's because
there had been complaints that the deck
was too cluttered looking when they did
have a sufficient amount what's even
worse the first few lifeboats that were
released after the collision weren't
even filled up halfway which could have
saved so many more lives perhaps those
poor souls could have been rescued from
the bone-chilling waters a lot sooner if
the closest ships passing by the
Titanic's crash site had seen the flares
and other distress signals being sent
but many of them didn't because of
something called light refraction this
phenomenon could also explain why the
Titanic's lookouts hadn't seen the
iceberg until it was too late there are
others however who say that this was
because of the fact that they didn't
have binoculars long story short they
didn't have the key to the onboard
cabinet where all the binoculars were
stored because the only guy who had that
key second officer David Blair
was replaced at the last minute and
forgot to hand the key over if the crew
had had binoculars to help them perhaps
they would have noticed the iceberg
early enough to change course and miss
it the ship was also moving much faster
than the speed it was built for the
reason for this was that the ship's
owner White Star Line didn't want to
fall behind schedule
in fact they wanted to get ahead of
schedule and surprised the world to make
headlines for arriving early maybe if
the Titanic had been sailing at a safer
speed they would have had time to steer
away from the iceberg even if it had
noticed a little too late due to the
lack of binoculars anyway there was a
whole series of unfortunate events
leading to the ship's collision and the
fact that so many people were left
unrest queued and their bodies not
retrieved so back to that question one
theory about where the bodies might have
gone is that they were lost at sea only
hours after the Titanic sank a massive
storm came over the ocean the currents
and winds would have swept many bodies
up to 50 miles away from the crash site
this could explain why the first ships
to arrive at the scene didn't find them
of course there were those victims that
went down with the ship and they had no
chance of being retrieved as for the
bodies that were recovered some were
given a proper burial at sea if there
wasn't room for them on the rescue ship
this was mostly third-class passengers
whose families wouldn't have likely had
the funds for a funeral others were
transported to Halifax Canada to be
buried by their loved ones but there are
also graves of unidentified victims that
were given burial in a cemetery - we'll
probably never know the exact location
or fate of the unfound bodies so we can
therefore only rely on the theories of
those who have been studying the Titanic
all this time and trying to unveil this
tragic mystery hundreds may have lost
their life to this horrific catastrophe
that possibly could have been prevented
but there are though
who made it out alive and did what they
could to help others as well if you saw
James Cameron's famous 1997 film based
on these events then you might remember
the character Molly Brown
being one of the first to make it out on
a lifeboat and trying to convince the
quartermaster that they should row back
to get more survivors well Molly Brown
was in fact a real person and there are
accounts that she actually did do this
the brave and selfless woman earned
herself the nickname the Unsinkable
Molly Brown and after the ship went down
she tried her best to get as many
passengers as she could into the
lifeboats but the philanthropist good
work didn't end there after surviving
the catastrophe and being rescued by the
RMS Carpathia Brown got together with
other first-class survivors and put
together an organization to help second
and third class survivors with
counselling and other basic needs
she also campaigned for education of the
poor and for women's rights in 1914 she
even ran for the Senate and after the
first world war the Missouri native went
to help rebuild war-torn France she was
truly a remarkable and inspiring woman
there was also author journalist and
teacher Lawrence Beesley Beasley was a
second class passenger from the UK who
was busy reading a book in his cabin
when the ship hit the iceberg
he asked to steward what had happened
and the steward tried to assure him that
it was nothing to worry about
luckily Beasley decided to go up to a
deck and since there were no women or
children around he was told to jump into
lifeboat number 13 just before it was
launched he later wrote a book that
brought him a lot of success called the
loss of the SS Titanic in this book
Beasley talks about his experience in
great detail another survivor was violet
Constance Jessup who was a stewardess on
the ship Jessup hadn't planned to work
on the Titanic until her friends
convinced her to apply for the job she
was in her cabin almost asleep in her
bunk
when the Titanic hit the iceberg she was
immediately ordered to go and help on
death she was then put into lifeboat 16
along with a baby to take care of after
eight hours afloat in the ocean another
ship saved the passengers of this
lifeboat and the baby was reunited with
its mother Jessup's survival skills were
put to the test yet again when she was
on board the HMHS Britannic which also
sank four years later in 1916 ironically
this was a sister ship of the Titanic
and also owned by White Star Line
Dorothea Gibson a beautiful American
singer model and silent film actress was
also a survivor of the Titanic Gibson
was one of the richer and more famous
aboard the ship
she was playing bridge in the lounge
with her friends when the collision
occurred she and two of these friends
escaped on lifeboat 7 which was the
first lifeboat that was launched when
she later arrived in New York her
manager convinced her to appear in a
film based on the sinking of the Titanic
in this movie she even wore the same
exact clothes that she had been in the
night of the real sinking do you know
any other facts about the Titanic
sinking or its survivors let everybody
know down in the comments if you learned
something new from this video then be
sure to give it a like share it with
your friends and click the subscribe
button to stay on the bright side of
life